# Architecture Decision Log

This folder contains a log of architectural decisions made on this project, including their status, context, the decision and the known consequences. We will add to this log through the development of ODA-CA and version control all the decisions. There is a useful guide at https://microsoft.github.io/code-with-engineering-playbook/design/design-reviews/decision-log/ and the original article is at https://cognitect.com/blog/2011/11/15/documenting-architecture-decisions

| Decision | Date | Status | Doc reference | Made By |
|----------|-------|-------|---------------|---------|
| 0001 record architecture decisions | 2023-04-06 | ODA-CA board approved | [0001-record-architecture-decisions.md](0001-record-architecture-decisions.md) |   ODA-CA board approved   |
| 0002 role vs permission | 2023-04-06 | Pending ODA-CA board approval | [0002-role-vs-permission.md](0002-role-vs-permission.md) |   [@brian-burton](https://www.github.com/brian-burton)   |
| 0003 reference API Gateway | 2023-05-03 | In progress | [0003-reference-api-gateway.md](0003-reference-api-gateway.md) |   [@lesterthomas](https://www.github.com/lesterthomas)   |
| 0004 which authentication protocol should be supported | 2023-05-24 | In progress | [0004-which-authentication-protocol-should-be-supported.md](0004-which-authentication-protocol-should-be-supported.md) |   [@lesterthomas](https://www.github.com/lesterthomas)   |
| 0005 which languages and libraries should be used | 2023-05-24 | In progress | [0005-which-languages-and-libraries-should-be-used.md](0005-which-languages-and-libraries-should-be-used.md) |   [@lesterthomas](https://www.github.com/lesterthomas)   |
| 0006 Common set of minimum mandatory JWT claims for interoperability | 2023-05-24 | In progress | [0006-common-set-of-minimum-mandatory-JWT-claims-for-interoperability.md](0006-common-set-of-minimum-mandatory-JWT-claims-for-interoperability.md) |  Authentication workshop |
| 0007 Provisioning identities across identity providers | 2023-05-24 | In progress | [0007-provisioning-identities-across-identity-providers.md](0007-provisioning-identities-across-identity-providers.md) |  Authentication workshop |
| 0008 Identity Propagation from Component to Component | 2023-05-31 | In progress | [0008-identity-propagation.md](0008-identity-propagation.md) |  Authentication workshop |
| 0009 Monorepo Helm and Container versioning | 2024-05-15 | Pending ODA-CA board approval | [0009-monorepo-helm-container-versioning.md](0009-monorepo-helm-container-versioning.md) |  Authentication workshop |
| 0010 AI4Canvas Operator Scope Decision | 2025-04-30 | Proposed | [0010-ai4canvas-operator.md](0010-ai4canvas-operator.md) |  [@lesterthomas](https://www.github.com/lesterthomas) |
| 0011 Uniform Method for Canvas-to-Component Information Transfer | 2025-04-30 | Proposed | [0011-canvas-information-transfer.md](0011-canvas-information-transfer.md) |  [@ferenc-hechler](https://www.github.com/ferenc-hechler) |
| 0012 Handling of Exposed APIs by Different Operators | 2025-04-30 | Proposed | [0012-exposed-api-handling.md](0012-exposed-api-handling.md) |  Canvas Spec Jam Workshop |
